# Software Design and Engineering
For my first enhancement, covering Software Engineering/Design, I chose [Lab 1-3 from my Data Structures and Algorithms course](https://github.com/GregMacDev/CS-499-Software-Engineering/blob/main/Lab%201-3.txt){:target="_blank"} that was created in May of 2020. This enhancement converts the program from its original language, C++, to Java. This program, as it was originally written, was intended to showcase the usage and implementation of a C++ struct data type. In this program, a user would enter the data for an item being put up to auction on an e-auction type website and the data would be stored in a struct object, with the option of printing the data to the screen through menu options.

I chose this artifact to act as the basis for my other enhancements to build off. The future enhancements will increase in complexity thus increase potential security vulnerabilities within the code. By converting C++ to Java, I will demonstrate my knowledge of software security as well as the relationship between similar functionalities of two different programming languages. Converting a C++ struct data type to a Java class not only demonstrates an understanding of how object-oriented programming functions in both languages, but it also illustrates an increased focus on security since a class in Java is, by default, private, whereas a struct in C++ is, by default, public. This conversion was developed using a security mindset, throughout, that anticipates exploits in software architecture and mitigates design flaws. This security first mindset is illustrated through my implementation of input validation, controlling the user’s input when choosing a menu option and validating the input of proper data types. The improvements made in this artifact provide a more secure basis to build off for my next enhancements that increase in functionality and complexity.

The process of converting the artifact from C++ to Java was more in depth than originally anticipated. Program I/O syntax and language specific data types were not the only changes that I faced during conversion.  I learned that the added security that Java offers over C++ comes with a more robust coding convention. Each of the program’s methods requires an access modifier to maintain the level of security I desired. Converting the struct data type to a Java class is another example of the increased complexity in code in favor of security. The struct originally contained 4 lines of code whereas the completed and secure Java class was roughly 50 lines. The main challenge I faced was designing the user input validation which consists of whitelisting the menu options of the program using nested while loops. I chose to use the security access method of default deny and only allow one of the three menu options to be chosen. Determining the proper way to implement this was a timely process that underwent numerous iterations before I arrived at its current, working, configuration.  

### Repository
[Enhancement One](https://github.com/GregMacDev/CS-499-Software-Engineering/tree/main){:target="_blank"}

## ePortfolio Links
- [Main Page](https://GregMacDev.github.io/index.html)
- [Enhancement Plan and Code Review](https://gregmacdev.github.io/enhancement%20plan%20code%20review.html)
- [Enhancement Two](https://gregmacdev.github.io/enhancementTwo.html)
- [Enhancement Three](https://gregmacdev.github.io/enhancementThree.html)
