
# Introduction

My educational journey at SNHU began in May of 2019, but my entire professional and educational journey began back in 2000. I began my education at Massasoit Community College, in southeastern Massachusetts as a liberal arts transfer student. While studying at Massasoit, I started a job in construction, which required me to change my day courses to night courses which slowed down my progression through school. Over the next several years my construction job provided me an opportunity to advance, turning my job into a career, but regrettably leaving my education behind. The advancement, however, led me to a managerial role for a few years before finally advancing me to an executive role within the company, in 2014. After a few years in this new role, I realized that I was not professionally fulfilled, and the construction industry was no longer for me. I needed to change my career trajectory. I knew that to do this, I would need to go back and complete my educational journey that I had abandoned many years prior.

Outside of my career, I had taken up programming as a hobby in my spare time. I have been interested in computers since the mid 90s, building computers since the early 2000s, but have only taken an interest in programming since 2015. When I felt it was time for a change, I knew that I wanted to pursue computer programming as a new career. I went back to Massasoit Community College, transferred my earned credits to SNHU, and changed my program to Computer Science with a Software Development focus. From the onset, I felt right at home with the coursework. I learned a lot more about computer science and programming that I had ever learned from programming as a hobby. 

## Program Reflection
While my time as a manager in a construction company taught me the foundations of team collaboration, CS-310: Collaboration and Team Projects taught me about how to apply those concepts in software development. CS-310 taught me about version control, using GitHub, for use within a collaborative team environment while communicating about and contributing to the creation of a calculator app. Related to team collaboration, CS-250: Software Development Lifecycle taught me about the process of how software is created and the various roles and stages of the agile development environment. I learned about the communication, organization, and tracking, required in an adaptive environment. This course continues to help shape my approach to developing software projects.

Some of the core concepts for projects I created in my time at SNHU, a few of which are highlighted in my portfolio, stem from courses such as CS 250: Data Structures and Algorithms. Throughout this course, I learned how apply proper data structures for organizing data within a program and implement technically sound algorithms that perform required functions. These foundations were frequently used throughout the program, each time increasing my skills and ability to assess their use in solving processing problems. Another course that is fundamental both in my own development and this portfolio, is CS-340: Client/Server development. In CS-340, we created a RESTFUL API to communicate with a MongoDB database. This course challenged me both in my knowledge of accessing and manipulating the data within a database and the use of the command line to interact with a database. The challenge this course posed to me convinced me that I need to implement a database into a program that did not currently have database functionality and include it in my portfolio. My aptitude in creating, maintaining, and manipulating data in a database is demonstrated between my CS-340 coursework and my third enhancement included in this portfolio.

The most important course, from my program, for my development as a software engineer was CS-405: Secure Coding. Without this course, I would not understand the importance of how to develop secure code to counteract potential threats. During my coursework in CS-405, I was able to determine potential vulnerabilities and weaknesses of software and prevent against attacks such as SQL injections and buffer overflows. This course would prove to be the backbone of my development as a software engineer, as I now take a security first approach to all my development projects.


## Portfolio Summary
Many of the skills I have accumulated from my robust coursework at SNHU is on display in this portfolio. A quick summary of my approach/goal of presenting the portfolio is to display the progress of building upon existing programs to increase functionality and complexity. My first enhancement starts small, with basic features, and displays my ability to understand the security necessary for handling user input. My first enhancement creates the foundations of a secure program that can easily be expanded upon. While increasing and changing functionality over the next two enhancements, security remains paramount. The second enhancement illustrates the use of data structures to effectively organize the data present in the program. This data can then be manipulated via quicksort and linear search algorithms. The third enhancement provides an alternative to the second enhancement’s functionality by implementing a database to store and manipulate data. This highlights my ability to work within the constraints of a database and its functionality. The similarities of the behaviors of the second and third enhancements display my ability to provide two different solutions, each with their own benefits and drawbacks, to the same processing problem of expanding the functionality of enhancement one.



### Portfolio
- [Code Review](https://gregmacdev.github.io/enhancement%20plan%20code%20review.html)
- [Enhancement One](https://gregmacdev.github.io/enhancementOne.html)
- [Enhancement Two](https://gregmacdev.github.io/enhancementTwo.html)
- [Enhancement Three](https://gregmacdev.github.io/enhancementThree.html)
